..
  Copyright 1988-2021 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
  This is part of the GCC manual.
  For copying conditions, see the GPL license file

.. _about-gnu-fortran:

About GNU Fortran
*****************

The GNU Fortran compiler supports the Fortran 77, 90 and 95 standards
completely, parts of the Fortran 2003, 2008 and 2018 standards, and
several vendor extensions.  The development goal is to provide the
following features:

* Read a user's program, stored in a file and containing instructions
  written in Fortran 77, Fortran 90, Fortran 95, Fortran 2003, Fortran
  2008 or Fortran 2018.  This file contains :dfn:`source code`.

* Translate the user's program into instructions a computer
  can carry out more quickly than it takes to translate the
  instructions in the first
  place.  The result after compilation of a program is
  :dfn:`machine code`,
  code designed to be efficiently translated and processed
  by a machine such as your computer.
  Humans usually are not as good writing machine code
  as they are at writing Fortran (or C++, Ada, or Java),
  because it is easy to make tiny mistakes writing machine code.

* Provide the user with information about the reasons why
  the compiler is unable to create a binary from the source code.
  Usually this will be the case if the source code is flawed.
  The Fortran 90 standard requires that the compiler can point out
  mistakes to the user.
  An incorrect usage of the language causes an :dfn:`error message`.

  The compiler will also attempt to diagnose cases where the
  user's program contains a correct usage of the language,
  but instructs the computer to do something questionable.
  This kind of diagnostics message is called a :dfn:`warning message`.

* Provide optional information about the translation passes
  from the source code to machine code.
  This can help a user of the compiler to find the cause of
  certain bugs which may not be obvious in the source code,
  but may be more easily found at a lower level compiler output.
  It also helps developers to find bugs in the compiler itself.

* Provide information in the generated machine code that can
  make it easier to find bugs in the program (using a debugging tool,
  called a :dfn:`debugger`, such as the GNU Debugger :command:`gdb`).

* Locate and gather machine code already generated to
  perform actions requested by statements in the user's program.
  This machine code is organized into :dfn:`modules` and is located
  and :dfn:`linked` to the user program.

The GNU Fortran compiler consists of several components:

* A version of the :command:`gcc` command
  (which also might be installed as the system's :command:`cc` command)
  that also understands and accepts Fortran source code.
  The :command:`gcc` command is the :dfn:`driver` program for
  all the languages in the GNU Compiler Collection (GCC);
  With :command:`gcc`,
  you can compile the source code of any language for
  which a front end is available in GCC.

* The :command:`gfortran` command itself,
  which also might be installed as the
  system's :command:`f95` command.
  :command:`gfortran` is just another driver program,
  but specifically for the Fortran compiler only.
  The difference with :command:`gcc` is that :command:`gfortran`
  will automatically link the correct libraries to your program.

* A collection of run-time libraries.
  These libraries contain the machine code needed to support
  capabilities of the Fortran language that are not directly
  provided by the machine code generated by the
  :command:`gfortran` compilation phase,
  such as intrinsic functions and subroutines,
  and routines for interaction with files and the operating system.

  .. and mechanisms to spawn,

  .. unleash and pause threads in parallelized code.

* The Fortran compiler itself, (:command:`f951`).
  This is the GNU Fortran parser and code generator,
  linked to and interfaced with the GCC backend library.
  :command:`f951` 'translates' the source code to
  assembler code.  You would typically not use this
  program directly;
  instead, the :command:`gcc` or :command:`gfortran` driver
  programs will call it for you.

.. -
   GNU Fortran and GCC
   -